1.
tw aggelw tys 'en 'Ephesw ekklysias graphon tade legei 'o krtwn    tous 'epta asteras 'en ty   dezia     autou 'o peripatwn 'en mesw twn 'epta luxniwn twn xruswn
to angel that in Ephesus church     write   this word  one holding the  seven star    in  the right-hand his   One walks    in  among the seven lamps  of  gold

2.
oida ta 'erga sou    kai ton kopon kai tyn 'upomonyn    sou    kai 'oti ou duny   bastasai kakous kai 'epeirasas tous legontas 'eautous 'apostolous kai ouk eisin    kai eures autous      pseudeis
Know the deeds yours and the toil  and the perseverance yours and  that no cannot endure   evil   and testing    the  call    themselves  apostles  and not they-are and found theirselves false

3.
kai 'ypmoyny     exeis kai ebastasas dia to 'onoma mou  kai ou kekopiakes
and perseverance have  and endurance for the name  Mine and not weariness

4.
alla exw    kata   sou 'oti tyn agapyn sou tyn prwtyn 'aphykes
but having against you that the love  yours the first  forgiven

5.
mnymoneue oun pothen peptwkas kai metanoyson kai ta prwta 'erga poiyson ei de my 'erxomai soi kai kinysw tyn luxnian sou ek  tou topou autys 'ean my metanoysys
remember where from  fallen  and  repent     and to first deeds do      or else  coming   you and removing the lamp your out the place self  unless you repent

6.
alla touto exeis 'oti miseis ta 'erga twn Nikolaitwn 'a      kagw misw
yet  this  have  that hate  the deeds the Nikolaiton which I-also hate

7.
'o exwn ous akousatw ti to pneuma legeu tais ekklysiais tw nikwntu dwsw autw phagein ek tou Sulou tys zwys 'o estin 'en tw paradeisw tou theou
who has ear hearing this the spirit speaks to churches who overcomes grant I eat   with the tree  of  life who is   in the paradise  of  God

8.
kai tw aggelw tys en Smyrny ekklysias graphon tade legei 'o prwtos kai the esxatos 'os egeneto nekros kai 'ezysen
and to angel  of  in Smyrna church    write   this word  of first  and the last    and began   dead   and  lives

9.
oida sou  tyn thlipsin    kai tyn ptwxeian 'alla plousios ei  kai tyn blasphymian ek twn legontwn 'Ioudaious einai esutous kai ouk eisin alla sunagwgy  tou Satana
know your the tribulation and the poverty   yet  rich     are and the blasphemy   of the words     Jewish    are   they    and not are   yet  synagogue of  Satan

10.
myden phobou 'a melleis pasxein idou  mellei ballein 'o diabolos ez 'umwn eis phulakyn 'ina peirasthyte kai 'ezete thlipsin   ymerwn deka ginou pistos    'axri thanatou kai dwsw sou ton stephanon tis zwys
don't look   what about suffer  behold about cast   the devil   some you into prison    so  testing     and having tribulation days  ten  beings faithful until death    and give you the crowns    of life


11.
'o 'exwn ous skousatw ti   to  pneuma legei tais ekklysiais 'o   nikwn 
he has   ear hear     what the pneuma says  to   ecclesias  whom overcomes 

ou my 'adikythy 'ek tou thanatou tou deuterou
won't  hurt     with of death    of  second

12.
kai tw aggelw tys en Pergamw ekklysias grapson tade legei 'o 'exwn tyn  'romphaian tyn  distomon  tyn 'ozeian
and to angel  of  in Pergamo ecclisias write   this word  whom has with  sword     with two-edges with sharpness

13.
oida pou katoikeis 'opou      'o thronos tou Satana kai krateis to 'onoma mou kai ouk yrnysw tyn pistin mou
know where dwelling you-where the throne the satan  and follow  the name my  and not deny  the  faith  mine

kai 'en tais 'ymerais 'Antipas 'o martus mou 'o   pistos  mou 'os 'apektanthy  par' 'umin 'opou 'o Satanas katoikei
and in  this   days   Antipas who martyred my who faithful my who  were-killed among you  where  the satan dwells

14.
'all  'exw   kata    sou  'oliga  'oti   'exeis 'ekei kratountas tyn  didxyn   Balaam
but   i-have against you things  because  have  there followers  with teaching Balaam 
'os edidasken tw Balak balein skandalon 'enwpion twn  uiwn  'Israyl  phagein  eidwlothuta    kai porneusai
who teaching  to Balak put    block     before   the sons  of-Israel to-eat  idol-sacrifices and pornography

15.
outws 'exeis kai su  kratountas tyn didaxyn  twn Nikolaitwn 'omoiws
self   have  and you followed   the teaching the Nikolaiton similarly

16.
metanoyson oun       ei  de   my   'erxomai soi taxu    kai polemysw
repent     therefore and not won't  coming  you quickly and war
met   autown 'en ty  'romphaia tou stomatos mou
won't self    in the  sword    the mouth    mine

17.
'o   'exwn  ous  'akousatw  ti  to  pneuma  legei  tais  ekklysiais  tw  nikwnti
who  has    ear  hear      what the pneuma  says   to    ecclisias   who overcome  

dwsw  autw  tou  manna  tou  kekrummenou  kai dwsw  autw  psyphon leukyn  kai  epi tyn psyphon
I-give him  the  manna  that hidden       and i-give him  stone   white   and  on  the stone

'onoma  kainon  gegrammenon  'o  oudeis  oiden  ei  my  'o  lambanwn
a-name  new     written     who  no-one  knows     but who  receives

18.
kai  tw  aggelw  tys en thuteirois ekklysias graphon tade legei 'o   uios tou Theou
and  to  angel   of  in Thyteiros  church    write   this says whose son  the Theo

'o   'xwn tous  'ophthalmous autou  'ws phloga  puros  kai  oi  podes autou 'omoioi xalkolibanw
whom has  this  eyes         their like flame  burning and whose feet his   like    bronze

19.
oida  sou  ta  'erga  kai  tyn  agapyn  kai  tyn  pistin  kai  tyn  diakonian
know  your the works  and  the  love    and  the  faith   and  the  diaconese

kai tyn 'upomonyn  sou  kai  ta  'erga  sou  ta  'esxata  pleiona  twn proton
and the long-wait yours and the  works yours the eschata  greater than first

20.
alla  'exw  kata    sou  'oti  'apheis     tyn  gynaika 'iezabel
yet  i-have against you because toleration the  woman   Jezebel

'y  legousa  eautyn  prophytin  kai  didaskei  kai  plana    tous 'emous
who speaks  herself prophecies  and  teaches   and  deceives those  my

doulous  porneusai        kai  phagein eidwlothuta
doulos   pornographically and  eats    idolothuta

21.
kai 'edwka auty  xronon 'ina metanoysy kai  ou thelei metanoysai 'ek  tys  porneias  autys
and give   I    chronon  to  metanoysy and she wants  metanoysai  of  the  porneias  hers

22.
idou   ballw  autyn  eis  klinyn kai tous moixeuontas  met' autys eis  thlipsin   megalyn
behold throw  I      on   bed    and this adultery    with  her   on  tribulation great
'ean  my    metanoyswsin 'ek  twn 'ergwn  autys
then unless metanoyswsin  of your ergon  hers

23.
kai  ta  tekna  autys apoktenw  'en thanatw  kai gnwsontai
and the  tekna  her   kill     with disease  and perceive
pasai  ai 'ekklysiai  'oti  'egw  eimi  'o  'eraunwn
all   the  ecclysiai  that   I   myself who  searches  
nephrous kai  kardias kai  dwsw  'umin  'ekastw  kata        ta 'erga  'umwn
minds    and  hearts  and  give   you    each   accordingly the works  yours

24.
'umin  de legw  tois loipois   tois 'en  Thuateirois  'osoi
you   but speak the  remainder those in  Thyatira     who  

oik 'exousin  tyn didaxyn  tautyn  oitines  oik    'egnwsan  ta
dont' hold   the  didaxyn  those    who     doesn't know     the 

bathea  tou  Satana  'ws legousin  ou  ballw  'eph'  'umas  'allo  baros
depths  of   Satana  as  spoken-of no  place   on     you   other  burden

25.
plyn         'o   exete  kratysate  'axris  ou  'an  'yzo
nevertheless what have   kratysate  until   -  I  -   come

26.
kai 'o     nikwn  kai  'o  tyrwn  'axri  telous  ta  'erga  mou
and whom conquers and whom keeps  until  ending  the works  mine
dwsw  autw  'ezousian  'epi  twn  'ethnwn
give  I      executors  in   the   ethnon

27.
kai  poimanei  autous  'en  'pabdw  sidyra  'ws  ta
and  ruling    them    with  rod    iron    as   the 

skeun   ta  keramika  suntribetai  'ws  kagw  eilypha
vessels the ceramicer shattered    as   also  authorized

para  tou  patros  mou
with  the  father  mine

28.
kai  dwsw  autw  ton  astera  ton  prwinon
and  give  I     the  stars   the  morning

29.
'o  'exwn  ous  'kousatw  ti   to   pneuma  legei  tais 'ekklysiais
who  has   ears  acousto  what the  pneuma  legei  to   ecclisias
