 ἀποκάλυψις Ἰησοῦ Χριστοῦ ἣν ἔδωκεν αὐτῷ ὁ θεός δεῖξαι τοῖς δούλοις αὐτοῦ ἃ δεῖ γενέσθαι ἐν τάχει καὶ ἐσήμανεν ἀποστείλας διὰ τοῦ ἀγγέλου αὐτοῦ τῷ δούλῳ αὐτοῦ Ἰωάννῃ
 apocolypse of Jesus Christ as given him by God to show servants of his what must happen quickly communicated to apostles by an angel, his servant John

 ὃς ἐμαρτύρησεν τὸν λόγον τοῦ θεοῦ καὶ τὴν μαρτυρίαν Ἰησοῦ Χριστοῦ ὅσα εἶδεν
 who testified of word of God and to testify to all he saw

  μακάριος ὁ ἀναγινώσκων καὶ οἱ ἀκούοντες τοὺς λόγους τῆς προφητείας καὶ τηροῦντες τὰ ἐν αὐτῇ γεγραμμένα ὁ γὰρ καιρὸς ἐγγύς
  blessed is reader and those who hear the word of prophecy and heed the things in writing, for the time is near

Ἰωάννης ταῖς ἑπτὰ ἐκκλησίαις ταῖς ἐν τῇ Ἀσίᾳ χάρις ὑμῖν καὶ εἰρήνη ἀπὸ ὁ ὢν καὶ ὁ ἦν καὶ ὁ ἐρχόμενος καὶ ἀπὸ τῶν ἑπτὰ πνευμάτων ἃ ἐνώπιον τοῦ θρόνου αὐτοῦ
Johannes to the seven ecclisias that are in Asia, charis to you, eipyny from him who is and who was and comes and from the seven pneumaton who in-front-of the thronou of His

καὶ ἀπὸ Ἰησοῦ Χριστοῦ ὁ μάρτυς ὁ πιστός ὁ πρωτότοκος τῶν νεκρῶν καὶ ὁ ἄρχων τῶν βασιλέων τῆς γῆς τῷ ἀγαπῶντι ἡμᾶς καὶ λύσαντι ἡμᾶς ἐκ τῶν ἁμαρτιῶν ἡμῶν ἐν τῷ αἵματι αὐτοῦ
and from Jesus Christ the martys the pistos the prototokos of the dead and of archon of basilea of earth, him agaponti us and released us from the hamartion- ours, by the blood- His

6.
καὶ ἐποίησεν ἡμᾶς βασιλείαν ἱερεῖς τῷ θεῷ καὶ πατρὶ αὐτοῦ αὐτῷ ἡ δόξα καὶ τὸ κράτος εἰς τοὺς αἰῶνας τῶν αἰώνων ἀμήν
and made us basileian priests of God and father- His, Him be doxa and the kratos forever and always and always, Amen.

7.
ἰδοὺ ἔρχεται μετὰ τῶν νεφελῶν καὶ ὄψεται αὐτὸν πᾶς ὀφθαλμὸς καὶ οἵτινες αὐτὸν ἐξεκέντησαν καὶ κόψονται ἐπ᾽ αὐτὸν πᾶσαι αἱ φυλαὶ τῆς γῆς ναί ἀμήν
behold coming with clouds and seen him every ophthalmos and those him pierced and mourning over him all the tribes the earth be Amen

8.
I am the alpha and the omega says the lord god the is and the was the coming the all-powerful

9. I Johannes the brother yours and partaker in the tribulation and basileia and perseverance in Jesus was in the island the called Patmo because the `logon` of Theou and the Jesus witnessing

10. ἐγενόμην ἐν πνεύματι ἐν τῇ κυριακῇ ἡμέρᾳ καὶ ἤκουσα ὀπίσω μου φωνὴν μεγάλην ὡς σάλπιγγος
I-was in pneumati in the kuriaky day and heard behind me loud voice like trumpeting

11.
legnousys o    blepeis grapson eis biblion kai pempson tais hepta hekklysiais eis Epheson kai eis Smyrnan kai eis Pergamon kai eis thyateira kai eis Sardeis kai eis Philadelpheian kai eis Laodikeian
saying    what seen    write   in  book    and send    to   seven churches    in  Ephesus and in  Smyrna  and in  Pergamus and in  Thyatira  and in  Sardis  and in  Philadelphia   and in  Loadiceia

12.
kai epestrepsa blepein tyn phonon hytis helalei met  hemou kai epistrepsas eidon hepta luxnias xrysas
and turned     seeing  the voice  that  spoke   with me    and turning     saw   seven lamps   golden

13.
kai en mesw  twn luxniwn 'omoion yion hanthrwpou 'endedymenon podyry  kai periezwsmenon pros   tois mastois zwnyn xrusan
and in midst the lamps    saw    son  man         clothed     enrobed and girded        around his  chest   sash  golden

14.
y de kephaly autou kai si trixes leukai ws 'erion leukon ws xiwn oi 'ophthalmoi autou 'ws  phloz puros
  of head    His,  and    hair,  white  as  wool  white  as snow     eyes       His   like flame fire

15.
kai ai podes autou 'omoioi xalkolibanw      'ws 'en kaminw  pepurwmenys kai y phwny autou 'ws  phwny 'udatwn pollwn
and    feet  his    like   burnished-bronze when in furnace glowing     and a voice his   like voice  waters many

16.
kai exwn en  ty dezia xeiri autou asteras epta  kai ek tou stomatos autou 'romphaia distomos 'ozeia 'ektoreuomeny kai 'y 'opsis autou 'ws 'o   'ylios phainei 'en ty dunameui autou
and held in his right hand  his   stars, seven, and out of mouth    his,  sword     two-edged sharp  came         and the face  his   like the  sun   shining in the power    his

17.
kai 'ote eidon auton 'epesa pros tous podas autou 'ws nekros kai 'ethyken tyn dezian autou 'ep 'eme legon  my    phobou 'egw eimi 'o prwtos kai 'o 'esxatos
and when saw   I      fell  at   the  feet  his   like dead  and  placed  the right  his   on   me  saying don't fear    i   am  the first  and the last

18.
kai a zun kai egenomyn nekros kai idou zwn eimi eis tous aiwnas keai exw kleis tou thanatou kai tou 'adou
and i Living and i-was dead and behold life mine ever and always and have keys to death and to Hades

19.
grpson oun 'a eides kai 'a eisin kai 'a mellei genesthai meta tauta
write what you see and that are and that will  become    after these

20.
to mustyrion twn epta asterwn ous eides epi tys dezias mou kai  tas  epta  luxnias tas xrusas oi 'epta 'asteres aggeloi twn 'epta ekklysiwn eisin kai ai lyxniai ai 'epta 'etpa 'ekklysiai eisin
the mystery the seven stars  you  saw in the right-hand mine and the seven lamps   of  gold  are seven  star    angels these seven ecclesia  are   and in lamps  of seven seven  ecclesia arecnp lm'
