1.
kai  tw  aggelw  tys  en  Sardesin  ekklysias  graphon  
and  to  angel   the  in  Sardis    ecclysias  write

Tade  legei  o  exwn  ta  epta  pneumata  tou  
this  legei  who has  the seven pneumata  whom

Theou  kai tous  epta  asteras
God   and  the  seven  stars

oida     sou ta  erga oti   onoma exeis oti   zys  kai nekros ei
perceive you the work since name  have  that live  and dead to-be

2.
ginou grygorwn kai styrison  ta  loipa     a    emellon apothanein
to-be watching and establish the remaining which ensues death

ou gar euryka sou ta  erga peplyrwmena enwpion tou theou mou
no for eureka you the work   fulfill   before  the god   me

3.
mnymoneue  oun pws eilyphas kai ykousas  kai tyrei   kai metanoysan-
mnemoneue then how received and acousted and observe and repented-

ean oun my  grygorysys, yzw   ws kleptys, kai ou my  gnws poian wran  yzw    epi se-
if then not guarding,  arrive as thief,  and the not know type  hour arrive upon you-

4.
alla exeis oliga onomata en Sardesin  a   ouk emolunan ta imatia autwn,
but  have  few   names   in Sardis  which not soiled  the mantle theirs,

kai peripatysousin met  emou en leukois, oti  azioi esin.
and walked         after my  in white  , that worthy are

5.
o   nikwn    outws perobaleitai en imatiois leukois,
who conquers thus  clothed      in clothing white,

kai ou  my    ezaleipsw  to onoma autou ek   tyc biblou tyc zwys,
and not don't obliterate the name yours from the book  of  life,

kai homologysw to onoma autou enwpion tou patros mou  kai enwpion twn aggelwn autou
and confess    the name  me   before  the father mine and before  the angels   mine

6.
o  exwn ous  akousatw ti to pneuma legei tais ekkyysiais
the has ears hearing  what the spirit says the ecclisias

7.
kai tw agnelw tys en pheladelpheia ekklysias graphon-
and the angel the in philadelphia  ecclisias write-

Tade legei o  hagios, o alythinos, o exwn tyn klein David,
this says thw  holy, the  true ,  the has the key   David

o anoigwn kai oudeis kleisei, kai kleiwn kai oudeis anoigei-
to open   and  none   shut,   and  shut  and  none   open

8.
oida sou to erga-  idou dedwka henwpion sou thuran hynewgmeune,
know you the work- look open   before   you  door  open

hyn   oudeis dunatai kleisai autyn-
which  none   able   unlock  themselves-

hoti mikran hexeis dunamin, kai hetyrysas mou ton logon, kai ouk hyrnysw to honoma mou.
that small   have   power,  and  observe  my  the words, and not  deny   the name mine.

9.
idou didw ek tys synagwgys tou Satana,
look give not the synagogue of Satan, 

twn legontwn eautous Ioudaious einai,
the  speak themselves  Jews    to-be,

kai ouk eisin alla pseudontai- 
and not to-be but  pseudonize-

idou poiysw autous hina hyzousin kai proskunysousin henwpion twn podwn sou,
look  make     I    to  present  and   prostrate     before  the foot yours,

kai gnwsin hoti ego hygapysa se.
and  know  that  I   love    you.

10.
'ti 'etyrysas ton logon tyc 'upomonys    mou,  kagw  se   tyrysw ek tyc 'wras tou peirasmou
that protect  the word  the perseverance mine, and-I you protect not the hour the testing

tyc mellousys 'erxesthai epi tyc oikoumenys 'olyc,
the ensuing    coming    on the   world     all,

peirasai tous katoikountas 'epi tys gys.
testing  the    dwellers    on  the earth.

11.
'erxomai taxu-  kratei o exeis,  'ina     mydeis laby ton stephanon sou.
coming quickly- seize the having, having nothing take the   crown   mine

12.
'i    nikwn   poiysw auton stylon en tw naw tou theou mou,
the conqueror  type  mine  pillar in the temple the god mine,

kai  'ezw   ou  my 'ezelthy 'eti, kai grapsw 'ep auton to 'onoma tou theou mou kai to 'onoma tyc polews tou theou mou,
and outside no not   going still, and write   on  mine the name  the god  mine and the name  the city   the god  mine,

tyc kainyc 'Ierousalym, y katabainousa ek  tou ouranou 'apo tou theou mou,
the  new    Jerusalem, the come-down  from the heavens away the  god mine,

kai to 'onoma mou to kainon.
and the name mine the new.

13.
'o 'exwn ous akousatw ti to pneuma legei tais ekklysiais
who has ears acoustae that the spirit says unto ecclysiais

14.
kai tw annelw tys en Laodikeia ekklysias graphon- tade legei 'o martus o pistos
and the angel that in Laodiceia ecclysias write- this says the martyr of faithful

kai alythinos, y    arxy   tyc ktisews tou theou-
and   true,  the beginning the creation of god

15.
  Oida   sou to  erga, 'oti  oute psuxros ei oute zestos.
perceive you the work, since neither cold are nor hot .

'ophelon psuxros yx y zestos.
 wishing  cold  be or hot

16.
outws, 'oti  xliaros  ei  kai oute zestos oute psuxros,
to-me, since lukewarm are and neither hot nor cold, 

mellw  se  emesai ek tou stomatos mou.
ensues you vomit from my   mouth mine

17.
'oti legeis 'oti Plousios eimi kai  peploutyka   kai ouden xreian 'exw,
since speech since wealth mine and being-wealthy and none  need   have,

kai ouk oidas    'oti  su  ei o talaipwros kai eleeinos kai ptwxos kai tuphlos kai gymnos,
and not perceive since you be the wretched and pitiful  and  poor  and  blind  and  naked,

18.
symbouleyw  soi  'agorasai  par  'emou  xrysion  pepyrwmenon  'ek  pyros  'ina  ploutysys,
consulting  you     buy     from me      gold      burned    from  fire  having richness,

kai  imatia  leyka  'ina  peribaly  kai  my  phanerwthy  y   aisxyny tys gymnotytos  sou,
and clothing white having clothed   and  my  revelation this  shame  the nakedness yours

kai kollourion  'egxrisai tous  'ophthalmous sou 'ina blepys.
and   salve       rub     your       eyes    you have seeing.

19.
egw  'osous  'ean philw  'elegxw  kai paideyw-  zyleue  oun  kai  metanoyson.
 I    greatly if  love   rebuke  and  instruct  eagerly then and  repent.

20.
idou  'estyka 'epi tyn thyran kai  kroyw-  'ean tis 'akousy tys phwnys
look   stand   I   the  door   and knock-   if  one  hears  the sound

mou kai 'anouzy tyn thyran,  kai eiseleysomai  pros auton kai deipnysw
me  and  opens  the   door,  and   opens      toward  me  and  dine

met  autou kai  autos met  'emou.
with  me   and    I   with  them.

21.
'o  nikwn     dwsw autw kathisai met 'emou 'en  tw thronw mou,
the conqueror give  I    seat    with  me   on the throne mine, 

'ws  kagw 'enikysa     kai 'ekathisa meta  tou  patros  mou  en  tw  thronw  autou. 
 as and-i will-conquer and   sit     before the father mine in the throne mine.

22.
'o  'exwn  ous  akousatw  ti  to  pneuma  legei  tais  ekklysiais
who had  ears hearing what the spirit says the ecclisias
